# largesofteng
Course material for the course "Large-Scale Software Engineering".

## Maven commands

All the commands need to be executed in the same directory as the _POM.xml_
file.

- `mvn compile`
  - Compile the source code of the project
- `mvn test`
  - Run the back-end test suite
- `mvn package`
  - Compile, test and package the project into a jar
- `mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass=se.lth.base.server.BaseServer`
  - Start the server (note: it has to be compiled first)
- `mvn clean`
  - Remove all files generated by `mvn` commands
- `mvn fmt:check`
  - Check if _.java_ files are formatted according to the google java code style
- `mvn fmt:format`
  - Format all _.java_ files according to the google java code style

It is possible to chain the commands simply by adding them after each other
without `mvn` in front of each command. For example, recompile the project and
start the server can be done with:

`mvn compile exec:java -Dexec.mainClass=se.lth.base.server.BaseServer`

## Windows installation instructions

For windows users:
Download maven for windows @ https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi
Under Files -> Binary Zip archive.
Extract to C:/

Control panel -> Search for "environment variables" -> Edit the system environment variables -> Environment Variables
In the lower list, select "Path" and edit. 
New -> C:\apache-maven-3.5.4\bin

open cmd, check that you can use the command: mvn --version

Try running java -version, if it doesn't work. Check that you also have a java JDK in your environment variable Path. If you don't, download a JDK from https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html

java SE Development Kit -> windows x64 or x86 depending on your system.
Install, then follow the steps above to add the JDK to  your environment variable.
The JDK is usually located under C:\Program Files\Java (unless you changed it) and the path should be:
C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_181\bin

To run the system, open cmd:
cd to where you cloned the github repo.
run mvn verify and mvn exec as above.
For me this is:
cd C:\Users\Gustav\Software\Java\ETSN\etsn05-samakning\base\server
mvn verify && mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="se.lth.base.server.BaseServer"

If you don't want to do this manually every time. Create a new txt file and add the following (remember to change PATH_TO_FOLDER). Then change the file extension to .bat (mine is called runETSN.bat)

@echo off
cd C:\PATH_TO_FOLDER\etsn05-samakning\base\server
mvn verify && mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="se.lth.base.server.BaseServer"

If you don't use version 8 of the JDK you'll have to add the following dependencies in the pom.xml.

        <dependency>
        <groupId>javax.activation</groupId>
        <artifactId>activation</artifactId>
        <version>1.1.1</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>javax.xml.bind</groupId>
            <artifactId>jaxb-api</artifactId>
            <version>2.3.0</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.sun.xml.bind</groupId>
            <artifactId>jaxb-core</artifactId>
            <version>2.3.0</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.sun.xml.bind</groupId>
            <artifactId>jaxb-impl</artifactId>
            <version>2.3.0</version>
        </dependency>


